in this video I'm going to talk about
the top 12 chest principles if you don't
know what the principle is is a certain
type of guideline that can help us have
better chess games and to win our games
by this point you know how to make all
the moves you know some strategies you
know how to check me you even know what
stalemate castling and on passant mean
but now we're going to help you compete
in chess tournaments and find out ways
to win against your opponents before
begin to listening the top 12 chess
principles this is a really important
video for you to learn because you need
to have some type of steps some type of
direction in order to beat your opponent
there's no such thing as a random win
you either learn how to make a plan to
win or you just sit back and just wait
till you lose the game but today we're
going to do the twelve chess principles
and these principles was written by a
master chess player named bruce
pandolfini now bruce pandolfini wrote so
many books he wrote over hundreds and
hundreds of chess books that could be
read from all across the world and a lot
of people have read these books have
gotten better by reading his material
now he's also taught grand masters such
as Bobby Fischer now this these
principles is going to help you out with
your game and we'll start right now
number one move with purpose every time
you make a move you need to make sure
that you have a reason any job for those
pieces so if you're moving up these
pawns just know that there's a reason
why this pawn is moved up in the middle
is to block this pawn from pushing
forward so if you're taking white and
you are attacking these two squares you
are stopping other pieces from coming
now there's a purpose for this move
sometimes I see people make a random
pawn move and you don't know why they
made this move does this pawn prevent
any type of threats or any type of other
pieces coming in from this side
always make sure that you have a purpose
for your moves whether if it is
attacking a piece whether this Bishop is
attacking this piece or you are guarding
a certain square are defending your King
number to play for the center if you are
playing for these four center squares
right here then you are going to be able
to control the game and your pieces
would be able to move more freely if you
are controlling these squares so let's
look at this right here if we were going
to go here and gonna push up right here
and white is now being able to control
the center look at all these squares and
look at how much control it has over two
other pieces white has stopped these
pawns from moving forward and block this
Bishop from being able to move out and
look even this bishop right here cannot
go out because whatever square it lands
on is going to be captured right here
and this Knight is blocked in from
moving out because it will be captured
by this pawn so if you play for the
center you find a way to control the
middle you will control the game and
that is number two playing for the
center have all your pieces directed
towards the center so that your
opponents cannot come through and
checkmate your King number three advance
both center pawns these two pawns right
here are going to be your hardest
working pawns in the game if you can
advance your pawns forward as far as you
can without it being captured again you
can control the center of the board and
you will control the whole game
preventing your opponent's from moving
their pieces outs so if your opponent's
is making these pawn moves on the side
right here do your best
to keep pushing ponds up the further you
push ponds up the closer the wall that
these ponds are attacking is going to be
closer to your opponent so you're going
to keep your opponent's from fighting at
your house instead they'll have to
footwork more and more about defending
at their kingdom number four develop all
the pieces as I've said before that all
these pieces right here are on the bench
they're not scoring points you're not
doing anything if they are on the back
rake if you can find a way to bring out
your Knights and your bishops into the
game you're going to find that these
pieces is going to have more things to
do
Brandon just sitting back here don't
make needless pawn moves that doesn't
really help out towards the game you
need to make sure that these pieces have
a job give it some work
let them come out to the middle of the
board to fight for your king
number five castle early after you have
developed your pieces and you have
removed the pieces in between the king
and the rook remember to castle your
king as soon as possible it is easier to
attack the King if it was in middle
aboard you give your enemies options to
attack from this way or this way or even
down the middle if you leave your King
in the middle but if you cancel here you
only know that black only has a chance
to attack one way that means that he has
to find a way to attack and you know
which way the attack is coming from
again if you leave your King in the
middle that attacker comes from the from
this side from this side are even up
down the middle number six answer all
threats if you don't know what the word
threat means a threat is whenever a
piece is attacking another piece so if
black decides to move this knight right
here you
have to ask yourself what pieces is he
threatening or what pieces is he
attacking so every time your opponent
makes a move find out which pieces is he
attacking and make sure you defend
against the move so as you can see this
Knight is attacking this pawn right here
and right here and this bishop is also
attacking this pawn so this night isn't
actually a good position to start
attacking and threatening White's pieces
so white has to make sure that these
pieces are defended properly or else
black is going to get away with a free
attack or free piece number 7 look for
double attacks whenever you are playing
a game
find out where can you move the pieces
in order to attack two pieces at the
same time let me tell you why
double attacks are very powerful in the
game for this example we're going to
create a fork where this Knight moved to
this square is now attacking this rook
in this rook this is a fork because is
now attacking two pieces at the same
time it is really hard to defend against
a double attack in a single move black
only has a chance to make one move so
that means that black can only move to a
square with using only one piece so even
though he moves away to try to run away
from this night this night is still
attacking this rook and taking it spot
or we can look at a different type of
double attack also right here with the
bishop now this bishop can move here and
it's also attacking two pieces at the
same time so it doesn't matter where
black decides to move black will also
lose a piece wherever whichever piece is
size to move remember double attacks are
really hard to defend because you only
have one move to make to defend against
it and also in this position this Bishop
is attacking both the rook
and the king at the same time so this
rook cannot move because the king will
be under attack
so whenever you're playing game find out
ways to make double attack number eight
make a plan checkmates do not happen
randomly you have to find out you have
to make a map do you want to checkmate
using two rooks or do you want to come
in for a Queen's bear-hug checkmate
right here or do you want to try and
find a way to get rid of all these
pieces so you can get to the King easily
whichever way you choose is considered a
plan it is hard to win a game if you do
not have a plan so let's take for
example if you are driving or if you use
the GPS before you have to know where
you're going to go you have to know your
final destination so why don't you find
out what your final destination is on
the chessboard because you can't use the
GPS if you don't know where you're going
so for number eight you have to make a
plan you have to find a way to checkmate
your King just keep in mind you want to
attack from this side you want to come
up through the middle or do you want to
even come here but no matter what you
have to strategize and you had to come
up which way then you want to attack and
checkmate your opponent's king number
nine take the initiative do not wait for
your opponents to attack you find a way
to make the first attack towards the
king so there's often times that I see
people play deep they're playing like
this they're just pulling up their pawns
a little bit like this and they bring
out their Knights but they put their
bishops still all the way back here and
you're just playing very slow these
pieces have not even passed up this line
to even make an attempt to attack the
white pieces so if you wait for your
opponents to attack you you're going to
have a higher chance of losing so why
not
a way to start attacking pieces to find
a way to get through towards the king
so remember taking the initiative
finding a way to attack first number ten
control open lines rooks are great on
open files and bishops are great on open
diagonals so rooks rooks do not do well
when they are hiding behind pawns they
do well when they are on an open file so
if you're able to place a rook on an
open file they can control this entire
file so that means whatever pieces step
on to this file you can just take them
wherever they land along this way now
controlling open diagonals for bishops
is the same way you want to find a way
to bring this bishop out into the game
and start controlling these open
diagonals in the game if you make a move
like this this this show is not being
used to its full power it is being
trapped between these two pauses almost
as if you're using this Bishop as a big
pawn you don't want to use a bishop as a
big pawn you want to make sure that it
has room s freedom to come out and
attack the board number 11 simplify when
ahead if you are ahead in pieces try to
trade to see a clearer picture of the
chessboard is harder to see the entire
chessboard when there are more pieces
but you can always find ways to trade
off pieces in order to get rid of all
the threats and you can minimize any
type of danger from your opponent so in
this case I can always take this bishop
and just come here I can trade Bishop
and even then this rook can come here to
trade Bishop for Bishop or in this case
we can look at
white trading rook for rook because
you'll still be ahead of pieces then
your opponent now only has one Bishop
left rather than potentially having this
rook to come around and clear up the
whole board you want to trade when
you're ahead in material so that you can
get to the in game faster that means
your opponent will have less pieces
defend with so you want to simplify
simplify the chessboard by trading
pieces when you are ahead in material
number 12 play form 8r checkmate taking
away bonus pieces is one way of getting
ahead but you should always look for
ways to checkmate the King in order to
win because take away pieces you could
just waste time like this take away a
piece here or even taking away piece
here but in this position white had only
one move left to win the game why worry
about take away all your opponent's
pieces or I like to say go pawn grabbing
like this so we see these pawns right
here is always nice to try grab these
early pawns or even just attack these
pawns to take them off the board but why
worry about pawns when you can capture
the king or checkmate the King in order
to win the game you simply could just
bring your rook right here for back rank
checkmate and that simply ends a game
checkmating the king is almost as if you
captured all your opponent's pieces so
if you're looking for a way to capture a
bonus pieces find a way to checkmate the
King first I know that this video was
long and I know that's really tough to
grasp all these 12 principles you're
asking Coach dad how tough this is
really tough like all these 12
principles is so much to remember I'll
tell you this is easier to learn these
principles if you are practicing
practicing and practicing these
so for every game you can try to print
out these principles and just have it
with you and maybe practice two or three
principles per game eventually you'll be
doing these by memory you'll start
remembering okay I remember this part I
remember I have to do this so if you are
practicing a lot on these principles
then you're going to have a great chance
of winning your games if you do four of
these principles you're just an okay
chess player if you do eight of these
twelve principles you're a pretty good
chess player but if you can find a way
to do all twelve principles in the game
you're going to be a great and excellent
chess player so always remember to
practice these twelve principles every
single gain you can just make it easy by
simplifying it by moving with a purpose
if you commit this to memory
if you always remember how to do this
you're going to win more games so always
remember to keep on practicing and also
leave a comment down below to let me
know which of these twelve principles is
your favorite and remember to subscribe
to my youtube channel for more videos
they'll be released later on
you